Git Fundamentals

Git is a distributed version control system (VCS), it can:

    1. Track changes in file
    2. Store multiple version of the file
    3. Cancel changes made
    4. Record, who made changes and when

Git stores changes as a snapshot of entire repo after each "commit" command

Git installation (on linux):
sudo apt install git

Git initial setup:
git config --global user.name "username"
git config --global user.email "username.user@example.com"

To check Git setting:
git config --list

Repository initialization
git init

To check current status of repo:
git status

To start tracking files (staging a file):
git add (or add . to stage all files at once)

Take create snapshot of repo:
git commit ('-m' it allows a message)

Additional features

To check difference at working directory after changes made in file:
git diff

To show difference in staging area:
git diff --staged

To check when last changes were made, by default shows all commits:
git log

To display the differences that have been made by each commit:
git log -p
git log --stat (shorter output)
git log -p -1
git log -n 3
git log -1

Cloning a Github repo:
git clone

Synchronizing local repository with remote repository:
Best practice: always used git pull command before any changes to push.
git pull (github to local sync)
git push (local to git hub sync)

Github authentication:

Generation of a new SSH key:
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096

Start SSH agent:
eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"

Add key to SSH agent:
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa

Add SSH key to Github:

To add a key you have to copy:
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

After copying, go to Github. When you are on any Github page, in upper right-hand corner click on
picture of your profile and select “Settings” in drop down list. In list on the left, select field “SSH and
GPG keys”. Then press “New SSH key” and in “Title” field write key name (for example “Home”) and
in field “Key” insert the content that was copied from file ~/. ssh/id_rsa.pub.

To check if everything has been successful, try executing command:
ssh -T git@github.com